# Journal: Portfolio Submission


# Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?
Based on the present game, “Draw It or Lose It”, which is exclusively available on Android, the Gaming Room (client) project aims to create a web-based game that serves numerous platforms. The goal of the game is for various teams of several players to compete in four rounds of one minute each. When a photo is chosen from a library, one team guesses till time runs out. If no one responds, each opposing team member has 15 seconds to respond before time runs out. The Gaming Room's requirements for the game application included that more than one team can participate in the game at a time, each team should consist of multiple players, every team and game name must be unique to check if the name already exists, only one instance or session of the game can exist in memory at a time, and the web version of the game should closely mimic the Android version of the game "Draw It or Lose It", which is like the 1980s television game “Win, Lose, or Draw”.

# What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?
I think what I did well and soundly in this report was the organization as well as clarity. Often times it is hard for the average person to understand the intricacies of the technology and breaking it down for them to understand what is going on is a important skill for students and professionals like us, especially in th technology field, in my opinion. So, I think I made this document simple enough and leaborate enough for the average person to grasp what is going on and is being talked about.

# What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?
The most important areas of the design document thoughtout the whole process, personally, was the Requirements, Design Constraints, and the System Architecture View sections. When developing the code it is vital to stick to the client's Requirements and Design Constraints as time and budget are heavily dependent on them. By trade, us developers are problem solvers and the Requirements and Design Constraints lay out the problem(s) to us so we know how and what is needed to solve the problem(s). Moreover, the System Architecture View sections gives us a coding blueprint or map of how the project may be organized in code. 

# If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
I would pick the Evaluation section as I believe it was an essential part of the whole project and is multi-layered. Perhaps, a little more research and digging would get us more accurate and thorough information regarding the three levels (Server Side, Client Side, and Development Toolss) and four operating sytems (Mac, Linux, Windows, Mobile) evaluated.

# How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I interpreted the user's needs and implemented them into the software design by performing user research (their history), understanding user stories, applying design thinking, testing, implementing feedback, and continuing to iterate until a viable solution was found. Creating software with the user needs in mind can improve user satisfaction, usability, efficiency, and mistake reduction. This can lead to a more successful software solution that satisfies its users' needs and achieves its intended aims.

# How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
My starting point was understaning the client's, Gaming Room, project or problem through their requirements and design constraints primarily. However, I also used research into understanding this space, the gaming world, and analyzing other, similar game applications to get a better picture of what is at hand. Both of the previously mentioned strategies or techniques are vital to the creation of a successful application. Nonetheless, I believe I will stick to the techniques I used in this project for the most part with, perhaps, the strategy of creating pseudocode for certain procedures or services in the code before implementing them programmatically.
